docs: async in executors tuto (#4264)
jina-ai/jina: docs/advanced/experimental/async-executors.md

(async-executors)=

> # Using async python within Executors

Reviewer: Python capitalized

> You can use naturally call async coroutines within `Executor`'s, allowing you to leverage the power of asynchronous

Reviewer: this sentence is werid. You can `use` or you can `naturally call` but not both

Author: my bad

> python to write concurrent code. 

Reviewer: Python capitalized

````{admonition} Example code
:class: tip

Functions decorated by `requests`  can be directly implemented as async `coroutines. 

```python
from jina import Executor, requests, Flow

class MyExecutor(Executor):
    
    @requests
    async def encode(self, docs, *kwargs):
        await some_coroutines()
```
````

## Examples

> In this example we have a heavy lifting API for which we want to call several time, we want to leverage the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example we have a heavy lifting API for which we want to call several times, we want to leverage the
```

> async python features to speed up the `Executor`'s call by calling the api multiples times in parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
async Python features to speed up the `Executor`'s call by calling the API multiples times concurrently.
```

with f:

    start_time = time.time()
    f.index(
        inputs=DocumentArray([Document(text="hello") for _ in range(50)]),
        request_size=1
    )
    
print(f"Processing took {time.time()-start_time} seconds")
>>>     Flow@123296[I]:🎉 Flow is ready to use!
        🔗 Protocol: 		GRPC
        🏠 Local access:	0.0.0.0:63319
>>>     Processing took 1.0029587745666504 seconds
```

### Without async

Here is an example without using `coroutines`, all of the 50 api calls will be queued and nothing will be done 
concurrently.

```python

class DummyExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    def encode(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        time.sleep(1)
        for doc in docs:
            doc.text = doc.text.upper()

f = Flow().add(uses=DummyExecutor)

with f:
    start_time = time.time()
    f.index(
        inputs=DocumentArray([Document(text="hello") for _ in range(50)]),
        request_size=1
    )
    
print(f"Processing took {time.time()-start_time} seconds")

>>>     Flow@123296[I]:🎉 Flow is ready to use!
        🔗 Protocol: 		GRPC
        🏠 Local access:	0.0.0.0:63319
>>>     Processing took 50.05074954032898 seconds
```

### Conclusion

> The encoding of the data is 50 faster when using `coroutines` because all can happen in parallel. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The processing of the data is 50 faster when using `coroutines` because it happens concurrently. 
```

> (docker-compose)=

Reviewer: wrong link

# Using async python within Executors

You can use naturally call async coroutines within `Executor`'s, allowing you to leverage the power of asynchronous
python to write concurrent code. 

````{admonition} Example code
:class: tip

Functions decorated by `requests`  can be directly implemented as async `coroutines. 

```python
from jina import Executor, requests, Flow

class MyExecutor(Executor):
    
    @requests
    async def encode(self, docs, *kwargs):
        await some_coroutines()
```
````

## Examples

In this example we have a heavy lifting API for which we want to call several time, we want to leverage the
async python features to speed up the `Executor`'s call by calling the api multiples times in parallel.

### With async

```python
import time
import asyncio
from docarray import Document, DocumentArray
from jina import Executor, requests, Flow

> class DummyAsyncExecutor(Executor):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class DummyAsyncExecutor(Executor):

   @requests
    async def process(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs): 
         await asyncio.sleep(1)
         for doc in docs:
            doc.text = doc.text.upper()
```
No need to do anything else

    @requests
    async def encode_async(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        async def proces_doc(doc):
            await asyncio.sleep(1)
            doc.text = doc.text.upper()

        await asyncio.gather(*[proces_doc(doc) for doc in docs])

f = Flow().add(uses=DummyAsyncExecutor)

with f:

    start_time = time.time()
    f.index(
        inputs=DocumentArray([Document(text="hello") for _ in range(50)]),
    )
    

> print(f"the call took {time.time()-start_time} second")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
print(f"Processing took {time.time()-start_time} seconds")
```

>>>     Flow@123296[I]:🎉 Flow is ready to use!
        🔗 Protocol: 		GRPC
        🏠 Local access:	0.0.0.0:63319
>>>     the call took 1.0029587745666504 second
```

### Without async

Here is an example without using `coroutines`, all of the 50 api calls will be queued and nothing will be done 
concurrently.

```python

class DummyExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    def encode(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):

        for doc in docs:
            time.sleep(1)
            doc.text = doc.text.upper()

f = Flow().add(uses=DummyExecutor)

with f:
    start_time = time.time()
    f.index(
        inputs=DocumentArray([Document(text="hello") for _ in range(2)]),
    )
    

> print(f"the call took {time.time()-start_time} second")

Reviewer: print(f"Processing took {time.time()-start_time} seconds")

(docker-compose)=
# Using async python within Executors

You can use naturally call async coroutines within `Executor`'s, allowing you to leverage the power of asynchronous
python to write concurrent code. 

````{admonition} Example code
:class: tip

Functions decorated by `requests`  can be directly implemented as async `coroutines. 

```python
from jina import Executor, requests, Flow

class MyExecutor(Executor):
    
    @requests

>     async def encode(self,docs,*kwargs):

Reviewer: please keep good style, spaces between parameters

        await some_coroutines()
```
````

## Examples

In this example we have a heavy lifting API for which we want to call several time, we want to leverage the
async python features to speed up the `Executor`'s call by calling the api multiples times in parallel.

### With async

let's make this api call a python `coroutines`

```python
import asyncio

async def api_call(text):
    await asyncio.sleep(1)
    return text.upper()
```

and let's modify our code to leverage the non blocking api call

```python
import time
import asyncio
from docarray import Document, DocumentArray
from jina import Executor, requests, Flow

def on_done(resp):

    for doc in resp.docs:
        assert doc.text == doc.text.upper()

    results = resp.parameters['__results__']

    for res in results.values():
        print(f"the call took {res['time']} second")

class DummyAsyncExecutor(Executor):

    async def proces_doc(self, doc: Document):
        doc.text = await api_call(doc.text)

    @requests
    async def encode_async(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):

        start_time = time.time()

>         task = [asyncio.ensure_future(self.proces_doc(doc)) for doc in docs]

Reviewer: Do not need to create tasks, just call a simple `await`. We do not want to show all the `async` features of `python`

        await asyncio.gather(*task)
        return {"time": time.time() - start_time}

> f_async = Flow().add(uses=DummyAsyncExecutor)

Reviewer: call it `flow`. `AsyncFlow` is a different thing and may confuse the users

(docker-compose)=
# Using async python within Executors

One of the most exciting feature that come with Jina 3 is the ability to naturally call async coroutines within 
executors, allowing you to leverage the power of asynchronous python to write concurrent code. 

`Executor`'s are not only static code, but they live within a `Flow`

> as a microservices waiting for `DocumentArray` to flow through (i.e. be passed to) them. In jina 2 this feature was 

Reviewer: Do not refer to Jina 2.

not possible because the inner python loop in which `Executor`'s were living was not compatible with the async loop.

> In Jina 3 we completely redesign this inner loop to be compatible with async python. 

Reviewer: Do not discuss about changes in Jina 3. This should remain here even after 3.0 is not a new thing anymore

## Examples

## Simplest async call

First lets define a simple coroutine 

```python
import asyncio

async def api_call():
    await asyncio.sleep(1)
    return "hello world"
```
Now we call it from an `Executors`

```python
from jina import Executor,requests,Flow
from docarray import Document,DocumentArray

class DummyAsyncExecutor(Executor):
    
    @requests
    def encode(self, docs : DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        

>         value = asyncio.run(api_call())

Reviewer: u do not want this, u want to call 

```python
value = await api_call()
```
